_decisions/domain-model-for-commands.md, before:

---
type: decision
acronym: domain-model-for-commands
title: What is the proper domain model for commands - who is owner?
decision_type: must
belongs_to: api
status: _1_open
responsible: 
deadline: 2021-10-22
priority: 1-high
tags: 
    - model-conflict
    - command-entity
todos:
    - fill open parts
history:
    v1:
        date: 2021-10-22
        comment: created initially
---

## Why is there need for such a decision?

Ownership for Command is claimed by more than one service: 
* Game
* Robot

## Additional sources for better understanding the background

n/a

## Viable Options

* Assign ownership
* Go for more than one command entity
* Generic command entity owned by Game, "payload" owned by services to whom command is routed

## Alternatives not seriously considered

tbd 

## How is this decision evaluated?

tbd

## Resolution Details

tbd

## Reasons for the resolution

The whole project is API-driven, as the robot service will have to implement against the APIs. Therefore, the
APIs need to be done first.

Commit message:

describe domain model for commands, created sequence diagram for command execution

_decisions/domain-model-for-commands.md, after:

---
type: decision
acronym: domain-model-for-commands
title: What is the proper domain model for commands - who is owner?
decision_type: must
belongs_to: api
status: _2_draft
responsible: cpo;fgr
deadline: 2021-10-22
priority: 1-high
tags: 
    - model-conflict
    - command-entity
todos:
    - fill open parts
history:
    v1:
        date: 2021-10-22
        comment: created initially
    v2:
        date: 2021-10-23
        comment: created first draft
---

## Why is there need for such a decision?

Ownership for Command is claimed by more than one service: 
* Game
* Robot

## Additional sources for better understanding the background

n/a

## Viable Options

* Assign ownership
* Go for more than one command entity
* Generic command entity owned by Game, "payload" owned by services to whom command is routed

## Alternatives not seriously considered

tbd 

## How is this decision evaluated?

* discussion between game architects from game and robot service

## Resolution Details

* chosen option: "Generic command entity owned by Game, "payload" owned by services to whom command is routed"
* commands are owned by the Game Service
* Game Service receives commands from the players and is responsible for sorting them by their execution phase
* Game Service sends a package with commands to the associated service during the correct phase, the other service
executes the commands directly after receiving it (other services have no awareness about phases)
* commands are associated with a commandUUID, this UUID allows the player to access the result of their command after it
has been executed

![Domainmodel commands v1](./images/domain-model-for-commands.png)

## Reasons for the resolution

The whole project is API-driven, as the robot service will have to implement against the APIs. Therefore, the
APIs need to be done first.
