_decisions/robot-seq-item-usage.md, before:

---
type: decision
acronym: robot-seq-item-usage
title: Item usage sequence of the robot context
decision_type: team
service: robot
status: _3_agreed
responsible: ngi;cpo
deadline: 2021-11-08
priority: 2-medium
aspects:
    - serviceInteraction
todo: define the contents of the thrown event with results for the movement item (see "Problem" below)
history:
    v1:
        date: 2021-10-27
        comment: created initially and added contents
---

## Sequence diagram

### Fighting items
![Robot combat item usage sequence](./images/robot-item-fighting-seq.png)
### Movement items
![Robot movement item usage sequence](./images/robot-item-movent-seq.png)

## Contexts which interact with this sequence

* game service: issues the command which was received by the player  
* robot service: processes the command, requests random planet from map and throws event according to the result
* map service: provides a random existing planet

## Additional information

### Fighting item
The received item type determines if a robot uuid or a planet uuid is expected.

### Movement item (wormhole)
The robot service needs the possibility to ask the map for a random valid planet uuid, get all planet data (analog to regular movement) and then throw the result as event with command uuid (to obfuscate) and planet info. This is very close to the movement but doesn't happen with the batch of regular movement commands. 

## Problem with movement item (wormhole)

After a successful move the player gets the new planet data obfuscated while not sending the planet uuid. Therefore the player can map the info with the help of the command uuid he got (he knows the planet uuid he sent his robot to so he can easily map). BUT: If movement happens with a randomized target planet the same method to obfuscate the planet info of the new planet doesn't work anymore because the event then has to contain the planet uuid to tell the player where this robot is. The solution would be to never tell the player which uuid a planet has, just giving him the info that there are neighbors "norht, east, south, west" and handling movement with that. (While considering this, don't forget about the validation done by the trading service whether a given planet uuid is a spacestation to check if trading in general is allowed - and other uses of the planet uuid)

Commit message:

updated sequence diagrams to reflect recent changes

_decisions/robot-seq-item-usage.md, after:

---
type: decision
acronym: robot-seq-item-usage
title: Item usage sequence of the robot context
decision_type: team
service: robot
status: _3_agreed
responsible: ngi;cpo
deadline: 2021-11-08
priority: 2-medium
aspects:
    - serviceInteraction
todo: define the contents of the thrown event with results for the movement item (see "Problem" below)
history:
    v1:
        date: 2021-10-27
        comment: created initially and added contents
    v2:
        date: 2021-12-20
        comment: added sequence diagram for repair items
---

## Sequence diagram

### Fighting items
![Robot damaging item usage sequence](./images/robot-item-fighting-seq.png)
### Repair items
![Robot repairing item usage sequence](./images/robot-item-repair-seq.png)
### Movement items
![Robot movement item usage sequence](./images/robot-item-movent-seq.png)

## Contexts which interact with this sequence

* game service: issues the command which was received by the player  
* robot service: processes the command, determines a random planet and throws events according to the result
* map service: provides a list of all planets

## Additional information

### Fighting item
The received item type determines if a robot uuid or a planet uuid is expected. E.g. robot uuid for the targeted rocket and planet uuid for the nuke.

### Repair item
The received item type determines if a robot uuid or a planet uuid is expected. E.g. robot uuid for a single repair and planet uuid for the repair swarm.

### Movement item (wormhole)
The robot service requests a list of all planets from the map service and chooses a random one. The location of the robot is changes accordingly and a success event is thrown. Additionaly, the two events after a successful movement (refer to [Robot movement sequence](./images/robot-movent-seq.png)) are also thrown.

## Problem with movement item (wormhole) - deprecated

This issue has been solved due to cutting the scope. (refer to [Decision: Obfuscation of information (fog of war)](./gameplay-obfuscation.md))  

After a successful move the player gets the new planet data obfuscated while not sending the planet uuid. Therefore the player can map the info with the help of the command uuid he got (he knows the planet uuid he sent his robot to so he can easily map). BUT: If movement happens with a randomized target planet the same method to obfuscate the planet info of the new planet doesn't work anymore because the event then has to contain the planet uuid to tell the player where this robot is. The solution would be to never tell the player which uuid a planet has, just giving him the info that there are neighbors "norht, east, south, west" and handling movement with that. (While considering this, don't forget about the validation done by the trading service whether a given planet uuid is a spacestation to check if trading in general is allowed - and other uses of the planet uuid)
